Idea is to make each request concurrent. 

Requests cannot be served iteratively meaning complete serving first request and then serve second request. 
This is not suitable because if the first request gets stuck for any reason all the request following the first request starve.

Asynchronous IO / Non-Blocking IO.

Webserver support for concurrency is a Combination of Multiprocessing and Multi-Threading in modern approach.

MultiProcessing: 

A Process is just a program in execution. Every process has its own address/memory place.
2 Processes are isolated by default. Each process cannot access other processee's address/memory space. Unless a special API is used.

MultiProcessing - Each process is alloted certain period of time and once the time runs out the process is pushed to the back of the queue. Next process takes the precedence.
This type of execution is relatively slow and inheriently inefficient as the processor switch time is considerable even though in milliseconds. Time spent in context switch is wasted.

MultiThreading:

A Thread in Jargon refers to the Current thread / Thread of execution. Java has a Thread class. A Thread is a sequence of executable instructions. 
A thread is one or more machine level instructions.
Thread of size 1 is very small. A thread of size 100 is medium.

A modern process consists of atleast 1 thread of execution. A process with multi threads are called multithreaded process. A process with single thread is called Single threaded Process.

multithreading Is efficient - as the context switch between one thread in a process to another thread in a process is nano seconds not milli seconds.

Threads with in the same process share the same address space. If there are 2 threads inside of a process then both these threads have access to the same memory location. This is results in
race conditions, memory consistency challenge. 

Multi threading is a challenge for programmers to make sure threads in a processor don't step on each other. 

In modern operating systems its threads that get scheduled to run in a CPU. 

In Java there is APIs to do both - Multithreading and Multiprocessing.

In Java concurrent programming is through multi threading. Rich assortment of API for multi threading in JAVA. Even though Java supports Multi Processing its not preferred.


Concurrency and Parallelism

8 processors meaning 8 CPUs. In java you don't have to do anything if the number of processors increase. processing automatically becomes parallel. Multiple work begin done at the same time.
Multiple CPU/Processors means parallelism automatically.

There are various ways to delay a thread in Java - wait() Object class s the efficient way to do waiting. It puts thread to Sleep and doesnt waste CPU cyccle.

How is Non-Blocking different from Multithreading and Multiprocessing ??

Multithreading and MultiProcessing are different ways of doing Concurrent programming. Non-Blocking IO is used as auxilary to one of those.  


